The authors have interesting and useful work! However, its presentation
in this paper can be significantly improved with some relatively minor
(but important) editing.

Here a quick/general overview, highlighting my main points (with more
specific comments/suggestions saved for later):

The organization sometimes leaves out too much "intuition" until
details are presented in appendices, which makes the paper more
challenging to follow (and reduces the likely impact of the
publication).  Also, information on what content is new (compared with
several past publications) should be a little more detailed, with a
more specific "roadmap" of where this novel information appears within
the paper. There should be a better description of the in-house
simulation software used - and how it compares with "avatar" based
modeling/tests from their previous work.  More information about
computers used (etc.) would be useful (to interpret benchmarking
results), too.

*** Overall Review: ***

-	Summary
This paper presents a framework for motion planning for a multi-limb
robot to locomotion within complex environments (i.e., avoiding
obstacles and achieving required contacts). Planning is broken into 3
basic problems (P1, P2, and P3):

P1: guide path for root/trunk of robot. 
P2: discrete equilibrium poses, including limb contacts. 
P3: interpolating between contact postures, for full trajectory.  

* Note: Figure 1 provides an excellent "visual description" of P1 and
P2! (Nicely done!)

This work focuses on P1 and P2, as decoupled problems, "while relying
on [a?] state-of-the-art solution for P3" (in the authors' words), via
use of a “reachability condition”, to reduce dimensionality of the
problem as a trade-off in speed vs accuracy, gaining improved
algorithmic speed by solving only a decoupled and
reduced-dimensionality approximation of the full problem.

An implementation of P3 is described/provided in Appendix C, to
illustrate the full planning structure.

In essence, the method (for addressing P1 and P2) looks for paths in
which a core “trunk-like” shape (e.g., cylinder or rectangular prism,
etc.) is out of collision with the environment, while the reachable WS
of the limbs is "in collision" (as a heuristic for likely achieving
needed contacts with the environment).	Adjusting (i.e., fictitiously
super-sizing) the size of the "core" in turn affects how well this
heuristic approach works, which is one issue the authors address
through simulation.

More specifically, Ws is a scaled version of nominal trunk shape Wo,the
polygonal shape of the trunk, used in P1 (guiding the root). S=1 is the
“true” size, and S>1 is explored.

Full-body poses have only one contact change, between neighboring
poses. Heuristics/criteria are described for ensuring "robustness" to
slipping (via violation of an approximation of the friction cone), and
for selecting "nice" limb configurations (e.g., away from
singularities, or providing adequate end effector forces).

[C_contact: whole body configs in contact AND collision-free.
C_reach: an approximation, via simple geometries, which can be sampled
efficiently.]

-	Major Contributions

This paper collates previous pieces by the authors and others (for
motion planning of legged systems across/within complex environments)
into a more complete and whole presentation, to explore trade-offs in
approximations used and general performance characteristics of the
approach.

As for novel contributions, this did not seem to be addressed/explained
until page 3 (in the last paragraph of Sec. I). Much of the methodology
has already been presented in earlier work, and the particular aspects
that set THIS paper apart seem (as claimed by the authors) to be: 

(1)	“ a criterion for robust static equilibrium” – but it isn’t
described until page 12, in Appendix B, Section B…  B is apparently
based mostly on reference [29],  except for its LP formulation in the
present work. It is a pretty intuitive/typical check for quantifying a
margin for friction cone’esque violations (using an approximation for
the friction cone, with x and y direction forces considered
independently).  It would really help to describe this MUCH earlier in
the paper (than page 13), if it is a significant novelty of your paper.

(2)	Provides “complete pseudocode”.  This is great! However,it’s
not fully clear how much of this is novel vs just re-presenting the
same algorithms previously publilshed.	If only code in App. B and C
are new, that should be clear. Conversely, if most of this presentation
was NOT outlined in such detail before, that should also be clear (to
the authors' credit). Either way, a brief clarification in the intro is
recommended.

(3)	The contribution to “provide a solution to P3” doesn’t happen
until page 13 (Appendix C) – and as with contribution (1), it needs a
better, intuitive summary (briefly) when first mentioned, as well as a
“roadmap” for the reader as to where it will be described. It is also
ambiguous in the paper whether to what extent (if any) this solution is
novel, versus a presentation of work from [1]. "Provide a solution"
seemed to imply novelty, in the context of this paragraph -- yet later,
the authors (near the end of page 2) state they use a "state-of-the-art
solution to P3", which implies the P3 solution is not a claim of
novelty.

(4)	The last contribution is validation using an in-house
simulator, as opposed to more approximate (“unrealistic avatar”) models
used in previous work.	As with the previous contributions claimed, you
should flesh out just a bit more detail, along with a roadmap to where
a particular contribution appears in the paper, to prepare and guide
the reader a bit more. More precisely, what are the differences between
these two “simulation” approaches (previous and current)? You need a
better description of what your in-house simulator does and does not
do; a vague citation to another paper based on that simulator [38] is
not sufficient.

-	Technical Accuracy

I did not find any issues with technical accuracy, although
presentation can be improved.

-	Presentation

As mentioned (see "Major Contributions"), the authors need to better
distinguish what the novel contributions are, and to highlight where
these contributions will be presented in the paper.  Also, many
important details are in the appendices. The paper would be improved
with more intuitive comments/summaries on these details, rather than
just writing (for example), we use a bunch of heuristics, and they are
described in Appendix X.  For example, you can at least say that
contact between feet and the ground use a heuristic (h_EFORT) for
ensuring adequate forces are achieved, while hand/arm contacts are more
successfully planned via a well-known heuristic (h_w) to avoid
singularities... (Not necessarily that particular description, but
however you would summarize your general approach, I mean.) 

Also, where you describe "sensitivity" vs "specificity", it would be
useful to give a more intuitive explanation, example, e.g., "meaning
the heuristic predicts a successful full-body pose where the true model
fails to find a solution"; or "when a solution exists, the heuristic
also correctly predicts this". (Again, not necessarily THAT
description, but something brief, in your words, for improved
readability...)

There are other places where similar "brief intuitive descriptions" can
help, but my review is getting a little long. (Check the attached
"minor edit suggestions" for some of these...)

I fully realize the authors are probably up against page limits for
this paper already. However, I suggest the paper will be improved if
the presentation focuses more on highlighting (a) what is novel, and
(b)
what take-away messages you have, about why the whole framework is
designed the way it is [within the main text; not hidden in
appendices].

-	Adequate Citations?

Citations of relevant work were useful and sufficient.

-	Multimedia

A nice video!  More detail on what the simulator used would be useful
to interpret the results, however.

*** Minor Suggestions, for consideration  ***

-- SEE PDF ATTACHMENT...

Yikes. Sorry my review is already so long!  You have done a nice body
of work, and I'm only trying to help improve the long-term impact of
the paper.... Anyway, I've attached specific potential edits as an
attachment.

- Finally, I apologize for any typos (or confusion) of my own, within
this review. (I've tried to be clear and helpful.)